# tc3profiler

For now Twincat 3 doesn't offer a profiling mechanism. The scripts, implemented within the scope of this repository, aim to add
such functionality in a relative simple way.
The scope of the project aim to add profiling of methods (of function blocks), rather than directly to function blocks. Coming from OOP we hardly use function blocks directly in our code base. 
Also, we focus on profiles of 1 cycle rather than profiling over a given timespan.

Currently this is work in progress, but the general idea is as follows

1. provide a simple profiler-library anyone can add to their application (not started)
2. add function calls that are used for stack reconstruction for all methods in a given application. ( > profiler_guards.py )
3. provide a script that triggers a profile measurement and then reads the callstack via ADS. The callstack is then stored on disk for later usage (not started)
4. provide a script that reads a callstack (created by 3.) from disk and converts it to the callgrind profile format, version 1 (http://kcachegrind.sourceforge.net/html/CallgrindFormat.html)

The profile can then be visualized by qcachegrind.

# using the profiler in your plc

## add library
wip

## generate profiling guards
use the script profiler_guards.py to add guards to all methods in your plc

```
python profiler_guards.py -d <PATH_TO_PLC> -a add
```
the script transverses through the entire code base of the plc located at the given directory. For all methods and it adds a header function call and a footer function call to the profiler library.

## make callstack snapshot
wip

## generate callgrind file
wip

# removing profiler from a plc

## add library
wip

## removing profiling guards
use the script profiler_guards.py to remove guards to all methods in your plc

```
python profiler_guards.py -d <PATH_TO_PLC> -a remove
```
the script transverses through the entire code base of the plc located at the given directory. For all methods and it removes the header function call and a the footer function call to the profiler library that were previously generated by using the "add" command of the script
